Welcome everyone to this lecture on setting up Spacey before we set up Spacey and download the language
library.
Let's quickly discuss what Spacey actually is.
Spacey is an open source natural language processing library for Python.
It's designed to effectively handle an LP tasks with the most efficient implementation of common tasks
and algorithms.
That means for many natural language processing tasks Spacey only has one implemented a method choosing
the most efficient algorithm currently available.
Usually that means state of the art.
This means you often don't actually have the option to choose between algorithms for a particular task.
Spacey only has one option which is the most efficient currently available now and LDK is another library
we're going to be using throughout this course and this one's more common so you may have already heard
of it and LDK stands for the natural language toolkit and it's a very popular open source library.
It was initially released in 2001 so that means it's much older and spacey which was released in 2015.
It also provides many functionalities that includes less efficient implementations and that's probably
one of the main differences between Speccy and LDK.
So let's quickly compare that to for many comment and LP tasks.
Speccy is much faster and more efficient at the cost of the user not being able to choose a specific
algorithmic implementation for most use cases.
That really doesn't matter because you care about the end result not using a particular form of the
algorithm.
So for that reason space is much faster than an LDK because until Teekay has a variety of implementations
for a lot of common tasks when Spacey just defaults to the most efficient currently available and it's
also much newer keep in mind space.
This includes some pre-created models for some applications that caters such as sentiment analysis which
is typically easier to perform with an altercation.
That means in this course due to spaces state our approach and efficiency we're going to focus on using
space where it really matters but will also introduce and use an altercation when it's easier to use
for certain tasks.
By the end of the course you should feel comfortable utilizing both libraries when they are best suited
for a particular task.
Now there is some processing data as far as efficiency of LDK versus Spacey.
And here we can see a table comparing Spacey to a bunch of other libraries including analytics.
They're at the bottom.
And we have the absolute millisecond per documents on the same hardware being run.
And we also have relative to space which is probably the more important part.
So Lotusphere that spacey can tokenize tag and parse documents and if you compare it speed to an LTE
K and old C K takes 20 times longer to actually tokenize in a document reading and it takes 443 times
longer to tag and it actually doesn't even perform parsing.
So you can already tell here that space is much more efficient than an LTE k up to 400 times more efficient
or more.
So that's really where we're focusing on spacing throughout this course.
If you want to get more facts and figures of performance metrics of spacey versus other libraries you
can check out this link above Spacey at the IO slash usage slash facts figures and Ill compare the capabilities
a Speccy versus other libraries.
Keep in mind we're focused on Python.
So really should we focus on speccy versus And LDK and you can see here it has a lot more models implemented
things like neural network model spaces built ready to perform state of the art neural network analysis
and LDK really isn't suited for that.
But there are a few cases where we're going to use analytics throughout the course so keep mine look
at that link if you want.
Spacey compare it to other libraries.
For now let's quickly walk through setting up Spacey and downloading the language library for this I'm
going to open up my command prompt.
So if you're on Mac OS or Linux Open your terminal and if you're on Windows open up your either Anaconda
prompt or your command prompt.
Let's head over to that now.
So depending on how you actually downloaded and installed Python in a anaconda you should be opening
up either the Anaconda prompt or the command prompt.
And if you're on a Windows computer you want to make sure you run this as an administrator.
You also want to make sure you don't have a firewall because we're going to be downloading the language
library from the Internet.
So from a command prompt and willing to run this as an administrator and now I have my command prompt.
Keep in mind sometimes when you run this as an administrator they'll automatically open the system 32.
You probably just want to be located in your C folder.
So the first thing in the Taipan is if you're located in kind of a strange folder with some permissions
issues type See CD space dot dot and then see the space dot dot.
And now we're in the C-Drive.
That should make sure that we don't have any permission issues as well as the fact that we're running
this as an administrator.
The first thing to do is make sure you've activated our virtual environment that we provide.
Or if you're not using our virtual environment make sure you actually have installed Spacey.
Now there's several ways to do this.
If you're using anaconda you can say Khanda install space dash see Conda dash forge Spacey and we actually
have all of this in the Speccy basics notebook.
You can go ahead and check that out.
We have a two step process written now and you can enter here and that should install Spacey for you
from the Anaconda packaging system.
So let's go ahead and fast forward in time until that's done installing.
Once that's done installing the thing you should see a bunch stuff that looks like this.
Again if you're using our environment file there should have been installed for you already.
The next thing however you're going to have to do even if you are using our environment file and that
is from the command line we need to download the language library that spacey needs and that language
library is a big reason about why space it can operate so efficiently.
So to do this you're going to need to double check that you have full administrative capabilities to
download stuff onto a computer.
If you're on a work computer you may need to ask for those permissions.
You may also need to check that make sure you don't have a firewall blocking your ability to download
stuff from the Internet.
So the next thing from the command line is you're going to type python space dash em space Spacey space
download space e m which stands for English and you're going to do this once you've installed.
Spacey go ahead and hit enter.
Now what this is going to do is it's going to automatically download from the command line.
The English language library now can see here.
I've actually already performed this download.
If you haven't yet it may take a while.
But unsuccess you should see something that says something like linking successful.
So it says you can now load the model using this command speccy that load.
And so that's what we're going to be using in the next lecture to actually load up our English model
and there's various versions of the English model.
You can check out the Speccy documentation for more details and we'll explore as we go along for the
course.
But those are essentially the main two steps that we need to do.
We need to make sure we had spacier installed and also make sure that we set up the spacey language
library.
Coming up next we're going to have a quick discussion on natural language processing basics.
Before we jump into space basics we'll see at the next lecture.